## Testing Overview

### What is Testing?

- It is a way for us to make sure our application is working as intended.

- Part of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) that aims to identify:

  - Bugs

  - Errors

  - Defects

- Meets user requirements and specifications.

- Ensuring Software is high quality, reliable, secure and user friendly.

### 1. Manual Testing

- It is the testing we have been doing so far.

- We have been manually running our application and testing our api endpoints and other functionalities if they are working or not. That is manual testing.

### 2. Unit Testing

- Involves **testing individual components** or **units** of software in isolation from the rest of the application.

- Validates that each unit of the software performs as designed.

- **Unit** = **Testable part of the application**.

- Developers wright unit tests during the development phase.

- Tests are automated and executes by a testing framework (Pytest).

- Benefit is to identify bugs early in the development process.

### 3. Integration Testing

- Focuses on testing the interactions between different units or components of the piece of software.

- The scope is broader than unit testing, as we are testing multiple units together.

- Helps identify problems for the entire solution.

- Example: Call an API endpoint and make sure the correct solution is returned.

### **Pytest**

- Popular testing framework for python.

- Known for simplicity, scalability and ability to handle both unit and integration tests.

- Top reasons to use Pytest:

  - Simple and Flexible - Native Assertions

  - Fixtures - Features setup and teardown

  - Parameterized Testing - Run same tests with different data
