## Status Code Overview

- **An HTTP Status** Code is used to help the Client (the user or the system submitting data to the server) to understand what happened on the server side application.

- Status Codes are international standards on how a Client/Server should handle the result of a request.

- It allows everyone who sends a request to know if their submission was successful or not.

### **HTTP Status Code Categories**

- **1xx – Information Response**: Request is being processed.
- **2xx – Success**: Request was successfully completed.
- **3xx – Redirection**: Further action must be taken.
- **4xx – Client Errors**: The error was caused by the client.
- **5xx – Server Errors**: The error occurred on the server.

### 2xx Successful Status Codes

- **200: OK** – Standard Response for a successful Request. Commonly used for successful Get requests when data is being returned.
- **201:Created** – The request has been successful, creating a new resource. Used when a POST creates an entity.
- **204: No Content** – The request has been successful, did not create an entity nor return anything. Commonly used with PUT requests.

### 4xx Client Errors Status Codes

- **400: Bad Request** – Cannot process request due to client error. Commonly used for invalid request methods.
- **401:Unauthorized** – Client does not have valid authentication for target resource.
- **404: Not Found** – The clients requested resource can not be found.
- **422: Unprocessable Entity** – Semantics Errors in Client Request.

### 5xx Server Status Codes

- **500: Internal Server Error** – Generic Error Message, when an unexpected issue on the server happened.
