## JWT (JSON Web Token) Overview

**JWT** is one of the most popular bearer tokens and authorization protocols within APIs.

### What is JWT (JSON Web Token)?

- **JSON Web Token** is a self-contained way to securely transmit data and information between two or more parties using JSON Object.

- JSON Web Token can be trusted because each JWT can be digitally signed, which in return allows the server to know if the JWT has been change at all.

- JWT is not an authentication method, but an authorization method in which allows the client and server to maintain a relationship without having to log in each request.

- JWT is a great way for information to be exchanged between the server and client.

Once a user logs in, the server will return a jwt, which is a string of characters that, when decoded, shows information about the client and user.

Each time a request comes from the same client after a successful authentication, the client will send the JSON Web Token and the server will validate token in each request.

### JSON Web Token Strucuture

- All JSON Web Tokens have similar structures.

- A JSON Web Token is created of three separate parts separated by dots(.) which include:

```
 aaaaaaaaaaaa.bbbbbbbbbbbbb.cccccccccccc
```

- Header: (a)
- Payload: (b)
- Signature: (c)

### 1. JWT Header

- The JWT header is the first part of a JSON Web Token that is sent between the client and server.

- It usually consist of two parts:

```json
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
```

> (alg) The algorithm for signing and (typ) The specific type of token

- The JWT header is then encoded using Base64 to create the first part of the JWT.

```
 (header)
 aaaaaaaaaaaa.bbbbbbbbbbbbb.cccccccccccc
```

### 2. JWT Payload

- The JWT Payload consists of the user's data and/or additional information.

```json
{
  "sub": "1234567890",
  "name": "Yodit Fentaw",
  "email": "Yodit",
  "email": "yoditfentaw@gmail.com",
  "admin": true
}
```

- The payloads data contains claims, and there are 3 types:

  - Registered (iss, sub, exp)
  - Public
  - Private

- The JWT payload is then encoded using Base64 to create the second part of the JWT.

```
   (header)    (payload)
 aaaaaaaaaaaa.bbbbbbbbbbbb.cccccccccccc
```

### 3. JWT Signature

- The JWT Signature is created by using the algorithm in the header to hash out the encoded header and encoded payload with a secret.

```json
HMACSHA256(
    base64UrlEncode(header) + "." +
    base64UrlEncode(payload),
    secret)
```

- The secret can be anything, but is saved somewhere on the server that the client does not have access to.

- The signature is the third and final part of the JWT.

```
   (header)    (payload)    (signature)
 aaaaaaaaaaaa.bbbbbbbbbbbb.cccccccccccc
```
